Menu.1: The investments calculator gives you a calculator that allows you to determine how your money will grow if you invest it.
Menu.2: Loan payoff time will tell you how long it will take to pay off your loan given a certain monthly payment, and how much total money you will pay.
Menu.3: Retirement goals helps you determine how much money you need to save for your retirement, based on how much money you will need per month after retirement.
Menu.4: Budget calculator helps you calculate your budget and figure out where you can save money.
Menu.5: Retirement duration helps you determine how long your current retirement savings will last.
Menu.6: Take home pay calculator allows you to turn an hourly salary into a monthly salary for budgeting, or any other similar calculation.
Menu.7: Child savings calculator helps you determine how much money your kid will have for college if you set aside a certain amount for them.
Menu.8: Home affordability calculator takes your salary, down payment, and current debt and calculates what kind of house you can afford.
Menu.9: Inheritance calculator determines how much you will inherit, based on the money, subtracting for taxes and debt.
Menu.10: Food cost calculator helps you determine how much money you currently spend on food and how much you could spend on food.
Menu.11: Net worth calculator takes your assets and liabilities and compares you to all Americans, giving you a percentile.
Menu.12: Appreciation/Deprecation calculator allows you to see how an asset will change in value over time.
Menu.13: The file button will allow you to see all the calculations you've done so far and create an excel file to take it with you.
Menu.14: You don't need help with this.
Appreciation.1: An asset is something that you own that has value. This can be a house, a car, or a rare valuable.
Appreciation.2: Current value is the estimated monetary value of the asset.
Appreciation.3: Indicate whether the asset's value is increasing or decreasing over time.
Appreciation.4: Yearly growth/reduction is how much you think your asset is changing. A car depreciates fast during its early years and then slows down after five years.
Appreciation.5: Frequency of calculation allows you to get a glimpse of the value depreciation at either a yearly or monthly rate.
Appreciation.6: This button will calculate your result and send your information to the file page. Go to the file page at the end to see all of your calculations.
Appreciation.7: You don't need help with this.
Budget.1: Monthly take home pay should can be calculated using the take home calculator. Make sure to remove 401K and taxes from your take home before placing it here.
Budget.2: Number of humans in your family. Kids might be cheap now, but wait until they eat more than you. Used for the other budget calculations.
Budget.3: Number of non-humans in your family. Used for the other budget calculations.
Budget.4: Number of cars you own. This is important for determining insurnace costs.
Budget.5: Current monthly mortgage/rent. Do not include utilities in this. This is only for your monthly payment.
Budget.6: Monthly car loan payment is for all your cars combined. Do not do individual cars.
Budget.7: Add up your minimum monthly paymens from personal loans, credit cards, student loans, or medical debt. Anything that isn't a car or home.
Budget.8: Utilities includes gas, electric, power, internet, and other necessary monthly payments. It does not include subscriptions.
Budget.9: For monthly insurance costs, include car, house, renters, and medical insurance. If you own pets, include their insurance too.
Budget.10: Monthly food costs includes both food you prepare at home and food you get when you go out to eat.
Budget.11: Monthly medical costs outside of insurance, like copays.
Budget.12: This is for any monetary donations that you give to church or charity.
Budget.13: This is money that you give to investments, not money that you take out of investments. If you pull money out of your investments, include that in monthly income.
Budget.14: Put any cost not listed in the other categories here.
Budget.15: This button will calculate your result and send your information to the file page. Go to the file page at the end to see all of your calculations.
Budget.16: You don't need help with this.